docs: add "Manage data compatibility" how-to (#5357)
canonical/snapcraft: docs/how-to/craft/manage-data-compatibility.rst

Manage data compatibility
=========================

> By defining an *epoch* in a snap's project file, snap authors can control how users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By defining an epoch in a snap's project file, snap authors can control how users
```

receive a snap release when its data format is incompatible with older versions.

Define an epoch for a snap
--------------------------

When a new snap release breaks data compatibility with older versions, snap authors can
increment the value of the ``epoch`` key in the snap's project file. This will stop
users of older versions from automatically refreshing to the newer release.

By default, snaps have an epoch of ``0``. If a new version were to break data
compatibility with snaps of this epoch, the new version's ``epoch`` key should be
incremented as follows:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: snapcraft.yaml

    epoch: 1

This will preserve the functionality of older versions until they can be safely
transitioned to the newer epoch.

Update a specific epoch
-----------------------

> To push updates to users of a specific epoch, edit the value of the update's ``epoch``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To push updates to users of a specific epoch, edit the value of the project's ``epoch``
```

> key to reflect the target epoch. For example, if you wanted to push an update to users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
key to reflect the target epoch. For example, if you want to push an update to users
```

> of epoch 0 after releasing epoch 1, you would edit the update's project file to include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of epoch 0 after releasing epoch 1, add the following to the projecet file in the
revision:
```

Manage data compatibility
=========================

By defining an epoch in a snap's project file, snap authors can control how users
receive a snap release when its data format is incompatible with older versions.

Define an epoch for a snap
--------------------------

When a new snap release breaks data compatibility with older versions, snap authors can
increment the value of the ``epoch`` key in the snap's project file. This will stop
users of older versions from automatically refreshing to the newer release.

By default, snaps have an epoch of ``0``. If a new version were to break data
compatibility with snaps of this epoch, the new version's ``epoch`` key should be
incremented as follows:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: snapcraft.yaml

    epoch: 1

This will preserve the functionality of older versions until they can be safely
transitioned to the newer epoch.

Update a specific epoch
-----------------------

To push updates to users of a specific epoch, edit the value of the project's ``epoch``

> key to reflect the target epoch. For example, if you want to push an update to users

Reviewer: > push an update to users of epoch 0

Since we're using epoch 0 as an example, and it's the default epoch, this might be confusing. What do you think about clarifying that this is for the specific case where the epoch isn't already declared.

I might also be misunderstanding the difference between an update and a definition.

Author: > ... after releasing epoch 1,

I thought this was sufficient context, but I'm all for improving it if you have any suggestions.

Reviewer: I think what I'm asking is whether the section heading matches what the code shows, and whether that's different from an epoch transition.

It looks like if an epoch is already in the project file, changing it means "transition"? Therefore, does the notion of an "update" only apply to revisions that haven't declared it already?

Reviewer 2: This section is mostly about "Update the original epoch" rather than "Update a specific epoch".  

But I think it may be explaining 2 things:
* you can push updates for any previous epoch
* you can add `epoch: 0` to push updates for the original epoch. Although I don't think this is strictly necessary, since the default is 0.

I think the first bullet point is more important.  The second could be a sentence at the end or a small separate section.

Author: > It looks like if an epoch is already in the project file, changing it means "transition"? Therefore, does the notion of an "update" only apply to revisions that haven't declared it already?

Ah I see what you're getting at now. My understanding was that transitioning to a new epoch is specifically when you append the asterisk to denote that an epoch is compatible with the older data format. Just changing the value to that of a previous epoch will not migrate any users like the transition does. It will only push an update to users who are still using a version belonging to that older epoch.

With that being said, I think "Update a previous epoch" is a more suitable section title, which also aligns with @mr-cal's comment.

Author: https://github.com/canonical/snapcraft/pull/5357/commits/d00bfbe61b8b123f6191026fbd6cfe6ad69e6330

Changed the section name and made a minor tweak.

Reviewer: The wording is clear, but the example code still confuses me. I suppose we'll cross that bridge when someone brings it up.

> of epoch 0 after releasing epoch 1, add the following to the projecet file in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of epoch 0 after releasing epoch 1, add the following to the project file in the
```

> of epoch 0 after releasing epoch 1, add the following to the project file in the
> revision:

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what "revision" means in this context.
```suggestion
of epoch 0 after releasing epoch 1, update your project file to include:
```

Reviewer: "to include the newer epoch"?
